minchanjun
==========

The basic idea behind your on-line travel reservation system is that it will allow customers to use the web to browse/search the contents of your database (at least that part you want the customer to see) and to make flight reservations over the web. Your web site should allow users to make both domestic and international reservations. It should also allow users to query the database for available flights (direct or indirect) between a pair of cities for a given date and "approximate" time.

2.1 Airlines Data

This category of data should include the following items:

Airline ID
Airline Name
Each airline has an two-letter ID. For example, the ID for American Airlines is AA, and the ID for United Airlines is UA.

2.1 Airport Data

This category of data should include the following items:

Airport ID
Airport Name
City
Country
Each airport has a three-letter ID. For example, ISP, LGA, and JFK are well known local airport codes.

2.3 Flight Data

This category of data should include the following items:

Flight Number
Airline
Number of Seats
Stops
Days of Week
Fare
A flight is operated by an airline, has a flight number (unique only within that airline), makes a sequence of airport stops (with each stop having local arrival and departure times), and operates on a given set of days of the week. For example, UA Flight # 1 flies from Chicago O'Hare on Mondays and Thursdays, departing at 5pm and arrives into Paris at 6am the next day. It then departs Paris at 10am local time to arrive in Rome at 12pm, and so on. A flight also has an associated fare and fare restrictions, which include Advance Purchase (deeply discounted fares may require advance purchases of a 3, 7, 14, or 21 days) and Length of Stay (some round-trip fares may have minimum or maximum stay requirements). A flight may also have a hidden fare, which is the lowest bid the airline is willing to accept in a reverse auction.

2.4 Reservation Data

This category of data should include the following items:

Reservation Number
Date
Passenger(s)
Legs
Total Fare
Fare Restrictions
Booking Fee
Customer Representative
A reservation has a unique number and is either for a single passenger or a set (maybe a group/family) of passengers. Each reservation is associated with a sequence of direct-flight segments called the legs of the reservation. Each leg has an associated from-airport, to-airport, flight number (along with its airline), departure date and time, special meal ordered, seat number, and class (economy/business/first). A reservation also has the following attributes: total fare, fare restrictions, and date when reservation made. For example, Mr. John Smith makes a reservation on 1/1/2010. He flies from Chicago on 1/10/2010 on flight UA #1 to Paris. After staying for a couple of days in Paris, Mr. Smith departs on 1/12/2010 from Paris on flight UA #3 to London, and so on.

A reservation also has an associated booking fee, which is how your company makes money, and an associated customer representative.

2.5 Customer Data

The items required for this category include:

Last Name
First Name
Address
City
State
Zip Code
Telephone
E-mail Address
Account Number
Account Creation Date
Credit Card Number
Preferences
Rating
A customer may partake in any number of flight reservation transactions, and may have one or more accounts from which to purchase tickets. Associated with each account is a reservation portfolio, indicating which reservations are held in that account. Customer preferences include aisle or window seat, preferred meal, etc. The customer's rating should reflect how active a ticket buyer he or she is.

2.6 Employee Data

This category of data should include the following:

Social Security #
Last Name
First Name
Address
City
State
Zip Code
Telephone
Start Date
Hourly Rate
3 User-Level Transactions

  A database transaction can be viewed as a small program (written in the DML) that either updates or queries the database. Transactions that change the contents of the database must do so in a consistent manner. Moreover, transactions should not interfere with one another when running concurrently.

What follows is a breakdown of the user-level transactions that your database system should support. To make sure transactions maintain the integrity of the database, you must write them using the SQL transaction structuring capabilities (i.e., begin transaction, commit transaction, etc.).

3.1 Manager-Level Transactions

The manager should be able to:

Add, Edit and Delete information for an employee
Obtain a sales report for a particular month
Produce a comprehensive listing of all flights
Produce a list of reservations by flight number or by customer name
Produce a summary listing of revenue generated by a particular flight, destination city, or customer
Determine which customer representative generated most total revenue
Determine which customer generated most total revenue
Produce a list of most active flights
Produce a list of all customers who have seats reserved on a given flight
Produce a list of all flights for a given airport
Produce a list of all flights whose arrival and departure times are on-time/delayed
3.2 Customer-Representative-Level Transactions

Customer Representatives should be thought of as reservation agents and should be able to:

Record a reservation
Add, Edit and Delete information for a customer
Produce customer mailing lists
Produce a list of flight suggestions for a given customer (based on that customer's past reservations)
3.3 Customer-Level Transactions

Customers should be thought of as online airline ticket buyers and should be able to easily browse your online travel reservation system on the web and make flight reservations. In particular, they should be able to make the following types of reservations:

One-Way
Round-Trip
Multi-City
Domestic or International
Flexible Date/time
A customer should also be able to cancel an existing reservation and partake in reverse auctions. While they will not be permitted to access the database directly, they should be able to retrieve the following information:

A customer's current reservations
Travel itinerary for a given reservation
A customer's current bid on a given reverse auction
The bid history for a given reverse auction
A history of all current and past reservations a customer has made
Best-Seller list of flights
Personalized flight suggestion list
4 User Access Control

Your database system should provide controlled access to the data by distinguishing between the different types of users: manager, customer representatives, and customers.

Customer Representatives should not be able to perform manager-level transactions; however, they should be able to read employee information, except for the hourly rate.
Customer Representatives should be able to record the receipt of an order from a customer.
A customer should not be allowed access to other customers' account information, or to any employee information.
5 Utilities

In addition to the transactions described above, the system should provide facilities for:

Allowing the manager to add and delete users
Backing up the database files
A comprehensive Help facility, including a topic-driven pull-down Help menu
